[MUSIC]
>> Brian Lonsdorf: So a functor,
you guys have just learned about functors.
Any object or data structure that you can
map over, that implements a map function,
and there are laws, so
it also has to obey these laws.
But think of it as just,
if it has a map function it's, a functor.
Unless you're jQuery and
you don't do it right.
[LAUGH] Resig,
somebody went to the bathroom,
I don't wanna wait,
in case they're pooping,
but I feel like this
is a really important.
Okay, so we have,
that was really embarrassing.
I shouldn't have said that.
Down to the bottom get
the get the name parts, cool.
All right, I wanted to wait for you,
man, I didn't want you to miss this.
Here's here, I just defined a functor.
It's anything with a map method.
All right, so, we've got a problem now.
Let's put this into some real use,
not just put stuff into containers for
no reason.
Cuz container didn't do anything for us,
it just made things more complicated.
So here we can actually get
an element with the query selector,
so I pass the full name ID selector,
into document query selector,
which will get the element.
Then we'll get the value out of that.
We'll call dot value on it, basically.
And then, we're going to split
it on I guess, space, right?
So whatever you type into first full name
will come back with like an array of your
first, last, or middle or
something like that, right?
So we're gonna name parts from this field.
What if query,
what if it doesn't find full name?
What's up.
>> Speaker 2: Hey, Brian,
we got a couple questions from the chat.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: I'm glad, thank you,
keep asking questions.
>> Speaker 2: All right,
Danielle B is you can do a quick
definition again, on partial applications.
She's not sure what that means.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: It's just giving
a curried function,
less arguments than it takes.
So you're partially applying it because
you're only giving it part of it.
There is some technical details that
you may want to say kerning is this and
partial application is that.
I use them interchangeably,
it doesn't really matter to me.
So yeah, you can you could just
give split, for instance, right
there is being partially applied with
the space, instead of the whole thing,
instead of the space in
the string which would run it.
So what if it doesn't find?
Is there other questions?
>> Speaker 2: There might have been but,
do we query so
we don't have to check for existence?
Or is the lack of existence check,
a result of query?
>> Brian Lonsdorf: They don't relate.
You query because you
want to concisely define,
in a generic way,
a function by giving it some some data.
Like if I wanted to,
right there on get value,
I've made a new function by only
giving it its first argument.
All right, so yeah, but
we're gonna get in the nulls.
This is just the slide one of them
pesky nulls, there's another one.
So if query selector doesn't find
full name, like if we misspell it or
we forget that underscore,
it's gotta be null on getElement.
And then when I call get value, it's
gonna be like, I can't get value of null.
I'm just going to die.
And if you try to split that,
it's just going to go down the tubes,
down the drain right?
Boom, is what I mean.
[LAUGH]
So
it blows up because there
needs to be a null check.
Now, we could implement some crazy
function that wraps everything and
say, all right, if it gets the value
combinator, check null first, and
then run these functions.
And that's possible, it's functional.
Do it.
But there's a cooler way that gives
you some theory and stuff behind it.
Let's me our first functor.
I made these baseball looking cards for
each one.
[LAUGH] They're like from 1990,
1991 or something or 1989.
Looks like Saved by the Bell.
[LAUGH] Anyway, so
this is gonna capture a null check.
This is, it's the maybe functor, right?
The value may or may not be there,
and you can see a bunch of different
implementations and scholar for
instance, it's option and
you have some and none in high school
you're gonna have just and nothing.
We gonna simplify this a bit by rolling
these subclasses and just the one type.
Because it's easier to just
kind of grok at first, but
later on it'll work, you'll get it works
like either, when we look at that.
So the idea here is that, you may or
may not have a value in your container.
Let's look at that.
And again this is a little bit
of a simplified version, but
all I'm doing is I took out the if
not null, and if not undefined.
But right now it's just
checking if it's truthy.
But the idea is that if it's there,
we're gonna apply the function and if not,
we're just going to return null, whatever.
Don't do it.
So now if we map capitalize
over our flamethrower,
we get is just like a container.
But we have a null check in our map.
It's gonna do an our null check
every time we map over it.
So if we call capitalize a maybe null,
it doesn't run it.
>> Speaker 3: So what you're saying is the
underscore maybe is now your container.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: You've redefined
the container
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Yes, well in
addition to container, I've defined maybe.
>> Speaker 3: Okay,
in addition to that.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: And
by the way, I have this underscore
maybe and then down there I'm just
calling maybe without underscores, that's
my constructor helper the calls new.
But this is pretty cool.
Check this out.
If you look at how we're calling this
function on the value inside the maybe,
this.val is the property inside maybe,
we're in its prototype,
we can look at its internal value and
decide whether or not to run this.
We've abstracted function application.
That is so powerful.
We can say,
you wanna run this function on me?
No.
[LAUGH] So this is pretty great.
Every step of the way, if you put your
value in a maybe, it will do a null check.
And it won't run if it's null.
Now, let's look at another example,
I suppose.
This is one just using compose.
So if we have this function,
that's just going to find the first match.
And we do dogsup,
there is no match of cat and dogsup.
So it blows up because we
can't call first or no.
Are people still being tripped up?
I know this is pretty new for you guys.
You just saw compose,
you just saw partial application.
We're using both.
We're partially applying match,
which is waiting for a string to tell of.
So it's gonna be a lot of new information.
But I want you guys to
kind of get the stuff.
Be able to take it home.
Play with the, do the exercises.
And get a real feel for it.
But right now,
ask me if you have questions.
We'll get through it.
So if it blows up, right in between
that match and first, we stuck a maybe.
And then we mapped first over it.
Let's go back and forth a few times.
All right, camera one, camera two,
camera one, camera two.
I'll hold it on here for a minute,
then go back so that everybody sees.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: Wouldn't you want to somehow
wrap what you're passing in?
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Well, dogsup is there.
But the match may return a null.
It might not match cat, which returns null
in JavaScript cuz match is, it'll either
return the match or a null, or actually
returns an array of, anyway, or a null.
Which is stupid cuz it should
just return empty array,
it would have worked like maybe.
But anyway, the point is that once, at
the point of when it becomes null, like at
this point right here, I keep forgetting
about this wonderful green thing.
So at this point right here,
we might have a null.
So we're gonna drop it in the maybe
by running the maybe constructor.
It's just, if we look a little bit back,
maybe is just a function, right?
If I, down to the bottom,
where I put the flamethrower and
maybe, I'm just calling
maybe with flamethrower.
So I could just drop maybe in
the middle of a composition and
whatever is there goes into maybe.
So here, if match might return
a null in between match and first,
and there's going to be null right here,
and it's blowing up my app.
I could drop maybe in there,
and put it in there.
And then I can map first over it,
because I can't call first on maybe.
I have to map first over maybe.
If I don't not first over maybe,
first will be like I can't,
it'll be like bracket or something,
cuz it's gonna get the string of
the object and try to be object, object.
Anyway, so
the point is that you have a null, and
we're gonna drop it in
maybe a map over that.
We're gonna see this more and more.
But we're about to do some exercises so
you guys can play with yourself.
But we need to lock this down,
cuz this is easiest functor.